# Video-game-sales-analysis
Links:
[Jupyter botebook](https://github.com/ahmedkadrygithub/Video-game-sales-analysis/blob/main/vgs.ipynb)

[Power bi file]([https://github.com/ahmedkadrygithub/Video-game-sales-analysis/blob/main/vgs.ipynb](https://github.com/ahmedkadrygithub/Video-game-sales-analysis/tree/main/Power%20bi))

<h4>What is the businesses context? </h4>
<p>This dataset contains a list of video games with sales greater than 100,000 copies. It was generated by a scrape of vgchartz.com*1.
    
The video game industry is the tertiary and quaternary sectors of the entertainment industry that specialize in the development, marketing, distribution, monetization, and consumer feedback of video games.

The development side of the industry is made up of six connected and distinctive layers:

1.	Capital and publishing layer: involved in paying for development of new games and seeking returns through licensing of the properties.
2.	Product and talent layer: includes developers, designers and artists, who may be working under individual contracts or as part of in-house development teams.
3.	Production and tools layer: generates content production tools, game development middleware, customizable game engines, and production management tools.
4.	Distribution layer: or the "publishing" industry, involved in generating and marketing catalogs of games for retail and online distribution.
5.	Hardware (or Virtual Machine or Software Platform) layer: or the providers of the underlying platform, which may be console-based, accessed through online media, or accessed through mobile devices such as smartphones. This layer includes network infrastructure and non-hardware platforms such as virtual machines (such as Java or Flash), or software platforms such as browsers or Facebook.
6.	End-users layer: or the players of the games.

</p>

<h4>What is the businesses impact? </h4>
<p>By this analysis i will answer one main question, If i am a developer and i want to create a video game that release on the beginning of 2018, what is the best way to do that?

there are two path to begin developing the game:

<ol>
    <li>If we need to focus on game genre</li>
    <li>If we need to focus on the platform</li>
    
</ol>
We need to ask these questions:
* What is the best Genre for the game?
* What is the best Platform for the game?
* What is the best Publisher for the game?
* which country we should release the game first?


EDA
* What are the top 10 games sales in histroy and is there a pattern for best game every some year?  (Global_Sales)
* reanswer the previous questions for Platform.
* reanswer the previous questions for Genre
* reanswer the previous questions for Publisher.
* What is the trend over years?
* reanswer the previous questions by every country. 



</p>

<h4>The Dataset </h4>
<p>This dataset downloaded from kaggle*2 and its contain 16598 rows × 11 columns:</p>
<ol>
  <li>Rank - Ranking of overall sales</li>
  <li>Name - The games name</li>
  <li>Platform - Platform of the games release </li>
  <li>Year - Year of the game's release</li>
  <li>Genre - Genre of the game</li>
  <li>Publisher - Publisher of the game</li>
  <li>NA_Sales - Sales in North America (in millions)</li>
  <li>EU_Sales - Sales in Europe (in millions)</li>
  <li>JP_Sales - Sales in Japan (in millions)</li>
  <li>Other_Sales - Sales in the rest of the world (in millions)</li>
  <li>Global_Sales - Total worldwide sales</li>

</ol>
